another day another bank run this time
in Toronto have no fear because in the
world of financial Madness this will be
supported by the liquidity of the
central banks sleep well my friends you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you today we are going to talk
about Bank runs and in this case we were
referring to home Capital group when you
see the deposit
of any banking institution declining at
this pace this is known as a bank run
the mainstream media the
corporations and the government May pose
this as a little issue a
little problem with liquidity however I
would disagree there is no other way to
put this than and a bank
run and so let's dig in to the issue of
Home Capital group you may have heard a
lot about this many subscribers have
asked me to discuss it I want to cover a
few points that I believe are integral
beginning with this the company
estimates that only 192 million will
remain deposited in its high interest
savings accounts down from 1.4 billion
ion dollar two weeks ago in a 2 we
period you have it going from 1.5
billion one and a half billion to 200
million think about how
drastic that is there is a serious bankr
run going on right now no money will be
left and the
shortfall is being made up by none other
than Ontario's largest public sector
pension
fund and it doesn't surprise me right
here you
have the balance deposit with gic's
offering offered by its subsidiar stood
at $12
billion down from 220 down 220 million
since April
28th again a lot of money is being
pulled out people are worried they think
that their Investments are not secure
and they go for a bank run even if the
government came out and said we will
bail this Bank out if it were to fail
doesn't matter people still are scared
and for good reason they pull their
money out and they put it somewhere else
that's just the way it
is and right now home Capital dealing
with some issues because of a scandal
involving falsified loan applications
this should ring a little bell
when you saw what happened during the
housing boom in the US you saw all kinds
of falsified loan applications the data
wasn't there the institutions weren't
looking into it simply because everybody
was making so much profit it wouldn't be
wise to get into that look as long as
housing prices increased nothing to
worry about so what's happening now is a
little bit different of course than what
happened during subprime crisis how
however some of the core is still there
and it is rotting
so here with home capital I believe the
issue has to do with the system and the
way it's set up and that is that you can
have so much corruption and you can have
individuals who innocently put their
money in with these institutions
thinking that their money is protect
protected and segregated from any sort
of gambling any sort of malpractice but
that's not the case home Capital check
this out home Capital uses money
deposited into gic's and savings
accounts to help fund its mortgage
lending when you deposit your money
whether it's at your local bank whether
it is with some sort of um you know you
get a mortgage from one of these
companies you believe that everything is
safe and sound you're not going to have
a problem with your mortgage as long as
you pay the bills and of course your
bank the money in the bank it is has a
guaranteed deposit on it up into a
certain amount nothing to worry about
right well I don't believe that is the
case and this happens to be one very
small example I believe these problems
will be more widespread in the future
let's move on to this couple points I
just want want to make very quickly
regarding home
Capital home capital is what they call a
lender of Last
Resort and this again rings that Bell
back to the financial crisis or leading
up to the financial crisis with all of
these Fanny May and Freddy Mack and all
the rest where we have individuals who
couldn't get loans in an normal way they
have to go through through these
alternative means and of course there is
more risk where there is risk there is
that fragility and where there is
fragility there will be failure I'm
seeing that right now individuals are
scared they pull out their money and
we'll see what
happens and so it basically says
that basically what I said where you
have to go to a secondary type mortgage
lender and now people are feeling
it all
right moving on very quickly I'm going
to get through this video video here
dollar doubles down the explosion of
dollar stores in the US has intensified
the battle for these discount Shoppers
and of course as the years go on you see
more market share going into the dollar
stores people looking for deals of
course the dollar stores aren't what
they used to be things used to be a
dollar at the dollar store but there's
now uh things that are $3 and $4 and so
on as the money devalues however the
point is clear is that people are
looking for more deals they're desperate
they don't have the kind of disposable
income that they once did and so you see
an explosion in dollar stores you'll see
this as
well Dollar Store adjusted operating
margin and the margins are thin doesn't
seem to be doing much of an
increase
perhaps a small amount but it doesn't
matter you'll see barely any increase in
these dollar stores operating margin
obviously when you're charging very
little for products it's not there so
you have to make money on the volume and
perhaps they are getting that now as
they have more customers than they were
before just something I thought I'd
mention grocery store have the same
issue with their operating margin being
around this 3% Mark as they're showing
you
here this tells me that they once again
need to make money on
volume and I do believe that this will
be a problem for a lot of these
stores in the future as people seek
better and better deals they're not
going to be able to necessarily get a
lot of the products that are available
they're going to have to limit and that
hurts a lot of stores federal government
current expenditures
interest
payments the interest
payments on the
debt has hit a record
high think about this for a second here
in billions of dollars $500
billion going just on the interest
payments on the debt that it owes which
is all fictional I mean can you even
imagine that it's hard sometimes I have
to just stop for a second and think of
the whole monetary system from the
beginning okay so you take the money
it's created out of thin air this this
sort of semi government not really
private is it sort of maybe institution
lends money at interest maybe a small
rate of interest maybe a large rate of
interest doesn't matter lends it to
interest to the government of that
particular country and then it says that
you must use this this is the only legal
tender so you use that
money to then give to the commercial
Banks the commercial Banks then loan it
out to you at a higher rate of
interest and it's impossible for all
that debt to be paid off ever because it
just accumulates and accumulates and
accumulates and here we go that's the
financial system in a nutshell what a
disaster this will continue to get worse
and the problem will be exacerbated by
every single financial crisis we are
faced with those paid to keep cost down
are gutting the system now think about
this for a second you have these two
factors management and
faculty number of Senior Management and
latter
faculty I believe this is referring to
those in the education system if I
remember correctly now yes the uh
student loans faculty anyway what we are
looking at
here when you see Management in any sort
of institution increasing at such a
rapid rate and then you see the faculty
not growing as much so think about all
of the senior
Executives there's more Executives than
there are teachers then there
are people in the
administration actually help helping out
the education portion and then you have
all these Executives who get all the big
salaries and steal all the money of
course gaining at a much much more rapid
rate and that is very apparent here in
this chart last but not least when you
talk about the education system you'll
see this the Ivy League
schools openthebooks.com
US taxpayer subsidies tax breaks and
federal payments to the Ivy League
colleges looking at this between 2010
and 2015 total taxpayer funded payments
and benefits totaling can you believe it
$40
billion $40 billion has gone from you
and I to them to the Ivy League
schools I understand why they need to
have good education you want to have
good schools you want to have an
educated bunch of people in your country
in your state or Province or cities I
get that but I can't help but feel that
a lot of money in between the time it
comes off of our income tax off of our
paychecks and makes it to the
individuals who need that money most of
it goes to waste I'm sure that if you
were to give directly give people not
that I'm suggesting this $40 billion I'm
sure you could devise a much better way
to fulfill the systems that we have in
place right here in this case just for
these Ivy League schools $40
billion I mean come
on crazy okay that's
enough if you found this video
informative please give me a thumbs up
remember that when you give me a thumbs
up it helps to push these videos higher
up in the YouTube search rankings these
videos are being essentially wiped off
the map it's unfortunate but I'm still
doing them I'm try to do it every single
day even though they are getting less
and less viewers all the
time my heart's still in the right place
doesn't
matter if you found the
videos informative this one the previous
one the next one
then I know you'll find my books even
more informative so you can actually
look through the books go over to Amazon
they have a look inside feature that
would allow you to flip through the
pages of these books to see if you like
them take care